The reason people originally liked Star Wars is because despite the many flaws of these movies,
it had something to say about the human condition. It's not really about stormtroopers and death
stars and x-wings and lightsabers. Those are the trappings. That's the window dressing. That's what
you drape over top of what should be a good solid story. George Lucas has correctly identified that
A New Hope is more of a fantasy film than a sci-fi one. My original inspiration on this film was
really to use mythological motifs to create a whole new kind of myth that was very updated
and contemporary. So I used the Saturday matinee serial as my vessel to put this barrel of
mythological motifs together. Since it's based on a very kind of old story and not a high-tech
story, it's more of a fantasy film than a science fiction film, I was able to use archetypes which
helped develop the characters and put them in a context where they could be easily grasped
because they are traditional characters. And this is the same story that has been
told a thousand times around the world for several thousand years. This is a mythic story.
It models for us what it means to be a hero in a very generic sense. Luke Skywalker is a child
of destiny given a magic sword by an old wizard and told to storm a fortress guarded by the Black
Knight in order to rescue a princess. The scope and scale of the story, along with four 1977
state-of-the-art effects, help cover up the fact that Star Wars is a very basic hero's journey.
Meanwhile, The Empire Strikes Back turns us on its head. It's a story about how the hero deals
with his own failure, how it's his own heroism that is the source of the failure, and how to
come to grips with the terrible truth. Luke's heroic traits are well defined in A New Hope.
He's courageous, loyal, and impulsive, all qualities well suited for a young man leaping
to the defense of the helpless. But in Empire, these qualities lead him to a confrontation with
Vader that he isn't ready for and he loses badly. Yoda tells him point blank before it even happens.
But Luke has to experience it to truly understand the path that he's on.
Return of the Jedi is the culmination of this story. Luke's first appearance in the movie,
he's acting a little bit more Sith-like than the audience should be comfortable with,
but at the same time, he's also more patient. He allows Jabba to make aggressive moves and mistakes
while his own plan unfolds. This is what integrating your dark side looks like.
By the end of the movie, Luke refuses to kill Vader. In fact, at the end of all three movies,
Luke gives up control and takes a leap of faith. It's not a foregone conclusion that
Vader will rescue him from the Emperor's forced lightning. Luke is doing this knowing full well
he might die, but the statement is clear. Luke is not going to become his father,
even if it kills him. Yeah, sometimes George Lucas is caught huffing his farts a bit too much.
But even then, the point I'm making is, when you strip away all the Star Wars stuff here,
there's a soul. A moral and ethical throughline that cuts right down the center of Luke and his
journey. The movies are trying to tell us something about what it means to be a hero,
what quality of character a hero has, where that might lead them astray sometimes,
and ultimately what somebody might have to sacrifice in order to live a good life.
And George Lucas is okay with outright saying, yeah, that's what the movies are all about.
They set about to recreate myths and the classic mythological motifs, because I think the core
issues that I'm dealing with are, if they were valid 2,000 years ago, they've got to still be
valid today, even though they're not in fashion. Why are they out of fashion?
The world we live in is more complex. A lot of those moralities have gotten to be grayed
to the point where they don't exist anymore, but those issues are still there in most people's
minds. The importance of, say, friendship and loyalty. Most people look at that and say,
how corny. But the issues of friendship and loyalty are very, very important,
but it's not common knowledge among young people. They're still learning. They're still
picking up ideas. They're still using these ideas to shape the way they're going to conduct their
life. And you need to tell the same story over and over again every generation, so that generation
gets it. And I think we've gone for a few generations where a lot of the sort of more
basic stories have fallen by the wayside. I hear so many young people today talk about
a world that's emptied of heroism, where there are no more noble things to do. What do you say
to them? Everybody has the choice of being a hero or not being a hero every day of their lives.
And you can either help somebody be compassionate toward people, you can treat some people with
dignity, or not. And one way you become a hero, and the other way, you know, you're part of the
problem. And it's not a grand thing. You know, you don't have to get into a giant laser sword fight
and blow up three spaceships to become a hero. I mean, it's a very small thing that happens every
day of your life. Though people don't like the prequel trilogy nearly as much, they're still
remembered fondly for being the mess that they are. And Lucas is also quite insistent that these
films also have something to say beyond just Star Wars. In fact, Padme even spotlights the message
in case you don't get it. One of the reasons the prequel trilogy talks so much about politics and
economics is because it's showing what a fearless, well-meaning, impatient young hero, somebody very
much like Luke, in fact, can become if he doesn't take the sacrificial path that Luke did. Take that
scene from episode two where Padme and Anakin talk politics. Yeah, that one that became a reaction
meme for a while. I don't think the system works. How would you have it work? We need a system where
the politicians sit down and discuss the problem, agree what's in the best interest of all the
people, and then do it. That's exactly what we do. The trouble is that people don't always agree.
Well, then they should be made to. By whom? Who's gonna make them? I don't know. Someone. You? Of
course not me. But someone. Someone wise. Sounds an awful lot like a dictatorship to me. Well,
if it works. This is actually the monarchist argument against democracy. If democracy really
is just a bunch of squabbling, uneducated fools, all having their worthless say while a crisis
grows more desperate, why shouldn't a strong individual with the expertise to solve the problem
be in charge instead? It's the benevolent dictator, philosopher king argument. Palpatine's populist
rhetoric during his rise to power, if you transplant it to real life, is probably pretty
popular with libertarians and how he wants to dismantle components of the state and end
corruption and shrink bureaucracy. There is no civility, only politics. The senate is full of
greedy squabbling delegates. There is no interest in the common good. If I may say so your majesty,
the chancellor has little real power. He is mired by baseless accusations of corruption
the bureaucrats are in charge now. Our best choice would be to push for the election of a stronger
supreme chancellor, one who could control the bureaucrats and give us justice. Any other choice
would be to submit a plea to the courts. The courts take even longer to decide things than
the senate. Your majesty, if I am elected, I promise to put an end to corruption. I will be
chancellor. I fear about the time you have control of the bureaucrats, senator. There'll be nothing
left of our people, our way of life. It is clear to me now that the republic no longer functions.
I pray you will bring sanity and compassion back to the senate. But what his supporters don't
understand and what he keenly recognizes is that all of those multiple levels of bureaucracy are
what keeps political power decentralized. That decentralization has led to their current problem
where there's too many interests, nobody can agree on anything and nothing gets done even in the face
of a civil war. But stripping away those bureaucratic layers, however popular a move it might initially
be, doesn't destroy the political power vested within them. It simply centralizes that power
within the remaining bureaucracy. The rebellion will continue to gain a support in the imperial
senate. The imperial senate will no longer be of any concern to us. I have just received word that
the emperor has dissolved the council permanently. The last remnants of the old republic have been
swept away. It's impossible. How will the emperor maintain control that the bureaucracy? The regional
governors now have direct control over their territories. It may very well be the case that
if the people within a state's apparatus are corrupt, you might need to clean house. I'm not
against that. But contrary to what libertarians think, shrinking the state doesn't always shrink
its power. Sometimes it centralizes that power into a system with a single point of failure.
That's why the rebellion's decisive strikes at just the right target are so devastating throughout
the series. Because when you weaken a state's bureaucracy, you monopolize the state's power
into one autocratic leader. And at that point, all you have to do is kill him. That is the lesson
of the prequels. The dangers of seduction, both sexual and political. It's tempting to think that
you know all the answers. That you can handle the forbidden fruit. But you don't. And you can't.
Of course, the prequels have many problems. Like a lot of what the Jedi are don't really make sense.
For example, why do the Jedi wear these robes? Well, because that's what Obi-Wan wore in the
original trilogy. But if Obi-Wan's in hiding, why would he specifically run around in the uniform
of a persecuted class of people? Why do all the Jedi act like creepy cult members? Well,
Luke's journey from regular kid to Jedi Knight saw him become serious and somber. But that's only
because of what he was going through with his father. That is the limitation of George Lucas's
iconic hero's journey style of storytelling. When it butts up against a cultural phenomenon,
whatever becomes emblematic of an idea is what sticks, even if it doesn't really make any sense.
But it's this rough around the edges nature of Lucas's Star Wars that lead internet soy boys
nowadays to justify the moral bankruptcy of Disney's Star Wars. So if the original story
is telling us how to be a sacrificial hero, and the prequel story is telling us what happens if
you reject the call, what does the sequel trilogy tell us? As far as I can tell, The Force Awakens
exists to tell us that Star Wars is really cool. Everything is a reference or a callback. But they
exist not as trappings of a larger story, but as the larger story itself. Where before the movies
would explain a political crisis and the various parties they're in, or a personal conflict between
characters with a lot of history, now the movie goes out of its way to not explain anything at
all. JJ Abrams said he wanted the Star Wars comedy back. But where before comedy accentuated
characterization, here it undercuts it. The characters in the setting are reset back to
the way things were in A New Hope, only this time with less explanation. There's an empire and a
rebellion with different names. Luke is isolated from everyone, Leia is a political leader fighting
the power. Han Solo is a smooth talker, desperately trying to hide the fact that he's a broke bum.
All of the growth and change is reversed so we can do Star Wars again. What does The Last Jedi
have to tell us? Well, pretty much the opposite of The Force Awakens. Star Wars is bad. Where an
empire Luke would never abandon his friends, and in Return of the Jedi Luke chose not to kill the
defenseless. Here we discover that Luke did both of those things in his old age. Everyone talks
about the phrase subverting expectations with this movie, and yeah, fair enough. It's like 90%
complete dog shit, with so many scenes that add nothing and make no sense, and in fact make other
things make less sense. I really don't want to go into just how bad this movie is right now,
this video is long enough, but I don't think the phrase subvert expectations is the ethic of this
movie. Instead it can be summed up in these scenes. It's time to let old things die.
Snoke. Skywalker.
The Sith. The Jedi. The Rebels. Let it all die. Let the past die.
Kill it if you have to. We are what they grow beyond. That is the true burden of all masters.
The idea here is that Star Wars is changing. It doesn't have to be about Skywalkers and
Kenobi's anymore. It can be about anybody. That's the point of the final shot of the movie. This kid
isn't anybody important, and yet he can use the Force. It's a grand moral equalization. The old
institutions don't matter. We can make things how we want them to be, and they don't need to be Star
Wars. So what is the Rise of Skywalker telling us then? Well, the lesson of The Force Awakens
is that we can no longer make anything new. We must remain tethered to what Star Wars was.
At the same time, the lesson of The Last Jedi is that we can no longer hold on to anything old.
The slate must be wiped clean. Despite how it sounds, these two ideas actually fit together.
In a Hegelian sense, if The Force Awakens is the thesis and The Last Jedi is the antithesis,
The Rise of Skywalker is the synthesis. It's a movie that is simultaneously tethered to the past
while rejecting it. It wipes the slate clean and then uses that space to build a simulacrum of what
came before. The ethics of Star Wars at this point are gone, and what remains is only the window
dressing. There are X-wings and lightsabers and stormtroopers and star destroyers, but the core
has been hollowed out. That's why it rings so hollow when Carrie Fisher says it's about family
and that's what's so powerful about it. We know they're not. They're about being about family,
which is a very different idea. At least Mark Hamill was a lot more honest about them.
I said to Ryan, I said, I think I fundamentally disagree with pretty much everything you've
decided for me. Now, having said that, I have to accept it, get my mind around it, and do my best
to realize your vision. I said to Ryan, I said, Jedi's don't give up. I mean, even if he had a
problem, he would maybe take a year to try and regroup, but if he made a mistake, he would try
and right that wrong. So right there, we had a fundamental difference, but it's not my story
anymore. It's somebody else's story, and Ryan needed me to be a certain way to make the ending
effective. That's the crux of my problem. Luke would never say that. I'm sorry. Well, in this
version, see, I'm talking about the George Lucas Star Wars. This is the next generation of Star
Wars. So I almost had to think of Luke as another character. Maybe he's Jake Skywalker. He's not my
Luke Skywalker, but I had to do what Ryan wanted me to do because it serves the story well. But
listen, I still haven't accepted it completely, but it's only a movie. I hope people like it.
I hope they don't get upset. In other words, the Star Wars sequel trilogy teaches us how you build
a progressive skin suit. First, stagnation is celebrated by way of worshiping the aesthetics
of the thing. Secondly, revolution is celebrated by way of discrediting all the old ethical
achievements of the thing. Finally, these two ideas are married into a creation that is simply
mechanical in how it operates. Scenes happen only because they must happen to reach the next scene.
Conflicts or revelations or sacrifices occur, not because they further anything, but because this is
around the point in time the audience expects to see one. Nothing makes sense, but nothing needs
to because we've deconstructed the idea of cause and effect. Things might be set up and then paid
off like in an actual movie, but there's no underlying action and reaction. The progressive
skin suit is complete. It looks like Star Wars, but deep inside it is in fact anti-Star Wars.